
<h2>Deep Learning Approach</h2>
This project milestone focused on utilizing deep-learning approaches to model our motor control data and evaluate how effectively different neural network-based models can predict motor faults. Neural networks are a popular supervised learning model that identifies nonlinear relationships and learns complex patterns between features and labels. Given that the data generated from our three-phase induction motor is time-series data with routine motor vibration signals, we chose to utilize recurrent neural networks that effectively recognize long-term patterns and dependencies between our generated features and our categorical label. <br><br>

Our first model created a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network from scratch and fine-tuned the number of LSTM layers, the number of hidden units within each LSTM layer, and the dropout rate which affects the regularization of our neural network. LSTMs are beneficial because they are well-suited for analyzing time-series data and handling long sequences of data but they are also very computationally intensive, their results can be less intuitive to interpret, and they can be very prone to overfitting to the training data. Our second model utilized a convolutional neural network (CNN) and tuned the learning rate and the number of CNN layers. While CNN is effective at feature learning and is robust despite noise and distortion in the input data, it also has a high computational cost and requires large amounts of training data to achieve high accuracy. In our case, because our data is generated from our motor system, it is possible that we didn’t have enough robust data to achieve desirable results. 
